**AppSmith**  
**Natanaele Sousa Freires**  
**Open Source Software in Practice** 

For my first open-source issue, I plan on working on the AppSmith Project repository, an open-source framework to build internal tools. The Appsmith repository has over 3.7 thousand forks, 42 thousand stars, and 3.7 thousand reported issues. The top languages for this project are TypeScript, Java, JavaScript, and CSS. Currently, there are 321 contributors to the specific repository I am exploring. 

The top contributors are associated with AppSmith directly based on their GitHub profile, with hundreds of other contributors coming from outside the organization. This form of operation and structure seems to work well for this open-source project. It ensures issues and bugs will eventually be addressed while allowing people from different backgrounds to give their input, enabling a sustainable and successful community.

This project is not part of a larger foundation; instead, it's a single open-source application developed to assist professional developers with daily tasks. I found AppSmith especially interesting because the people who use and benefit from the platform often work to improve it as well. They have a strong feedback culture, encouraging people to talk about technical and nontechnical issues that might appear along the way.

After a short exploration of the project, one can already tell that this is an open-source organization with clear goals, missions, and values established. The code of conduct overviews the community's pledge, standards, responsibilities, scope, enforcement, and attribution aspects. The community's standards are plausible, mentioning a zero-tolerance policy towards disrespectful behavior related to gender, age, race, and political views. The "Project Maintainers" are responsible for communicating if a particular behavior is acceptable and taking the necessary steps to correct any inappropriate behavior and take necessary actions. They have a range of abilities within the repository, allowing them to remove, edit, and reject different contributions. All those measures make it easier to maintain a productive and healthy work environment for those associated with AppSmith and those who are contributing and potential contributors.

My interest in this specific open-source platform can be attributed to various motives; one is that I tend to lean toward data-related things, which led me to examine this project further. AppSmith also allows users to use their creativity when building their applications, which is very interesting to me. The design of their landing page is engaging yet simple, and It covers all the possibilities users might have. However, once you get started on AppSmith, the interface and organization of things can overwhelm a beginner. Fortunately, there are tutorials and a walkthrough video within the GitHub repository that clarifies and introduces the platform, helping with any initial confusion. 

My experience with web development also narrowed my search for a suitable project. I wanted to work with something I could visualize, making AppSmith a good choice among other repositories I considered. Another important factor was that this GitHub repository seems to have contributions happening every single day, sometimes even more than once. Besides the platform being live on the internet, this ensures that the project continues to exist as an impactful open-source initiative.

Diving into the technical aspects, an interesting [issue](https://github.com/appsmithorg/appsmith/issues/36804) (\#36804) reported in the repository caught my attention. The expected behavior is for the Edit and Launch boxes to appear when hovering over the application box. However, when you reload that page while hovering over the box, the buttons do not appear, which should not occur in any circumstances. This bug is likely not dependent on other issues. 

This technical issue has initiated a conversation, with a few contributors wanting to share their perspectives on a possible fix. However, there aren't any solid comments about how they could potentially solve this issue; the discussions are only about assigning people to fix the specific bug. The template was filled out, and I could reproduce the specific bug by following the steps in the description, which reflects how important documentation is. Along with the written part, the person who reported the bug also added a video displaying exactly what the issue would look like when you try to recreate it on your own. 

So far, three people have been assigned as primary contributors to this issue, and the conversations are still fresh. No one opposed fixing this bug. This bug somewhat impacts the platform's aesthetics and functionality. Although not a critical bug, it would be a nice point of exploration and could also open discussion if similar patterns or issues exist on parts of the platform. 

I was able to recreate this bug on my computer. To fix this issue, I need to explore the specific files connected to the application box. This would involve exploring TypeScript and JavaScript files and checking for event listeners that affect how the buttons are displayed in the box. It could also be an issue with the hover functionality. I would also have to check for any error messages in the files, check for duplicates or style issues in the CSS files, and consider loading delay times. 

I have dealt with something similar in my previous projects, where sometimes multiple files have repeated event listeners, causing conflicts and affecting usability. That possibility needs to be investigated, as it could lead to interference and be one of the causes or the cause of this bug. This issue can confuse the users and prevent input and interaction within the platform. Although it does not appear when the page is first loaded and seems like a minor inconvenience, addressing this bug reaffirms AppSmith's commitment to providing a smooth platform. 

In conclusion, AppSmith appears to be a good codebase for those wanting to make their first contribution to an open-source project. Bug \#36804 is an opportunity for me to develop my JavaScript skills and problem-solving abilities and gain more knowledge about technical issues in a web development environment. This experience is a great way to familiarize myself with GitHub while contributing to a well-established open-source community.  
